---
published: true
layout: post
title: 'Newsletter: Winter 2017'
---
Check out what we’ve been up to and what’s to come to kick-off this
year.

**Community**
=============

**Feature update: First Nations and Indigenous Data Sovereignty.** We
are very excited to announce a new collaboration with regional First
Nations champions and leaders to define indigenous interests in open
data and open government in Canada. This process will culminate in an
interest paper authored by Open North that will set out a vision and
principles related to indigenous open data and open government, framing
indigenous interests in intellectual property law, in consideration of
the limitations of [*OCAP®*](http://fnigc.ca/ocap.html) in protection of
cultural properties and indigenous identity. Stay tuned for more
details!

[*Represent API*](https://represent.opennorth.ca/)**.** Our API
continues to be used by advocacy campaigns across Canada, demonstrating
the value of maintaining this up-to-date and accurate database of
elected officials at different levels of jurisdiction to enable citizen
to engage directly with elected MPs. We’ve been further automating some
processes to make it faster and easier to maintain and deploy.

**Civic Tech Toronto.** Check out Open North’s Executive Director’s
presentation at Civic Tech Toronto updating the packed audience what’s
coming up at Open North in 2017 and global open data trends to keep in
mind when mobilizing locally. Watch the video
[*here*](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z2JRjrrejw4).

**What’s coming up:**
---------------------

Are you organizing an event for **International Open Data Day** on March
4th? If you are, make sure to register your event
[*here*](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1cV43fuzwy2q2ZKDWrHVS6XR4O8B01eLevh4PD6nCENE/edit#gid=98436325).
You may also be eligible for an Open Knowledge International mini-grant
to organize your local event. Details
[*here*](https://blog.okfn.org/2017/01/25/announcing-the-2017-international-open-data-day-mini-grants-scheme/)!

[*Publish What You Pay*](http://www.publishwhatyoupay.org/) **- Canada
(PWYP)**. We’re putting the final touches on an interactive dashboard
that highlights payments from extractive companies to government
organizations, Indigenous peoples, and projects within Canada. We’re
excited to empower citizens and communities in the governance and
management of natural resources.

[*Community Hubs in
Ontario.*](https://www.ontario.ca/page/community-hubs-ontario-strategic-framework-and-action-plan)
Open North is working with the Province of Ontario on its ongoing
Community Hubs initiative. Lead by our partner Ecoethonomics, the
project aims to make better use of public properties, remove barriers
and enable community hub development to build local capacity to
strengthen local planning. Read the latest report about the Community
Hubs
[*here*](https://www.ontario.ca/page/one-year-progress-update-community-hubs-ontario-strategic-framework-and-action-plan).

[*Transform the Sector*](http://transform.thesector.ca/). A gathering of
data experts, policy innovators and social sector leaders, this event is
not to be missed! Join Open North’s Executive Director at this one-day
conference where he will be speaking about the Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs) and questioning what makes for a robust indicator system.
The event will set the stage nicely for a 2nd edition of
[*Data4Impact*](http://opendatasummit.ca/) to be held on the margin of
this year’s Canadian Open Data Summit in Edmonton on June 12.

We’ll also be participating in a panel at [*Transparency: The Next
Generation*](http://www.oic-ci.gc.ca/transparencyconference/index.html).
This conference on transparency is organized by the Office of the
Information Commissioner of Canada with the Treasury Board Secretariat,
Department of Justice and Library and Archives Canada.

[*Go Open Data 2017.*](http://go-opendata.ca/) The 5th annual Go Open
Data conference welcomes our Executive Director as the keynote speaker
for the conference hosted in London, May 5-6, 2017. The conference is
the result of a collaborative effort between civil society, IT
professionals, bloggers, community and economic developers, city
planners, civil servants and more.

**Parliament**
==============

**Feature update:** [*Global Open Data
Index*](http://global.survey.okfn.org/)**.** GODI is a crowdsourced
measurement of open government data publication orchestrated by Open
Knowledge International, with data submitters from all around the world.
Open North is proud to be a lead reviewer for this year’s Global Open
Data Index review, charged with reviewing all National Laws and Draft
Legislation data submissions. We’ve recruited a team of enthusiastic
volunteers with the help of [*Samara*](http://www.samaracanada.com/home)
and the review is well underway.

**The** [*Legislative Openness Data
Explorer*](https://beta.openparldata.org/) **has been completed**! The
Data Explorer contains information on 39 chambers of parliament, and
provides global, comparative information on parliamentary openness. All
data on the site was crowdsourced from parliaments or parliamentary
monitoring organizations. Join the mailing list
[*here*](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/parliament-data-donnees).

**What’s coming up:**
---------------------

**ParlAmericas**. We are developing an online learning platform with
Caravan for[*ParlAmericas*](http://www.parlamericas.org/en.aspx) which
will serve as a resource space to support the creation and review of
gender-sensitive budgets and legislation in Caribbean parliaments. Built
for parliamentarians conducting their legislative work, and instructors
conducting training sessions with parliamentarians.

Watch out for the two new exciting
[*ReadyReckoner*](http://www.readyreckoner.ca/?locale=en-CA) online
fiscal simulator modules that we developed for the Office of the
Parliamentary Budget Officer that will allow Canadians to simulate
economic scenarios and their impact on federal revenues and expenses, as
well as infrastructure spending and full-time job creation. Launch
expected this quarter!

**Government**
==============

**Feature update: New Publications.** Launched in the lead up to the
Open Government Partnership global conference in December, our [*report
on aligning sub-national open data programs with international best
practices*](http://public.citizenbudget.com/uploads/custom/on.ca/ODCinCanada.pdf)
supports cities and provinces that want to explore the feasibility of
adopting the International Open Data Charter. Fall 2016 also saw the
release of another major publication on [*How Can we Improve Urban
Resilience with Open
Data?*](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B8BZxtR6WDBJcHYzallaZFNBRFU/view)
Co-authored with GeoThink.ca, we discuss the fruitful intersections
between open data and urban resilience and posit next steps for these
communities to tackle together.

[*Open Data 150 - Canada.*](http://canada.opendata500.com/) Supported by
Open North, this project is the first comprehensive, internationally
comparable mapping of Canadian companies that use open data to launch
new products and services, create commercial and nonprofit ventures,
optimize their business processes, do research, make data-driven
decisions, and solve complex problems. Explore Canadian companies
[*here*](http://canada.opendata500.com/list-page.html)!

**Statistics Canada crowdsourcing pilot project**. In collaboration with
OpenStreetMap, we’re supporting Statistics Canada to work with local
mapping activists to map buildings across Canada, starting with Ottawa
or Gatineau. Learn more about this project and [*start
mapping*](http://www.statcan.gc.ca/eng/crowdsourcing) today.

As part of their ongoing dialogue series, the **Institute on
Governance** brings together innovators, trailblazers, public policy
creators, implementers and key influencers to look at the impact of
digital culture and technologies on public institutions. We had the
pleasure to participate in the January edition of [*Democracy,
Accountability and Citizenship in the Digital
Age*](http://iog.ca/framing-innovation-dialogue-series/).

**What’s coming up:**
---------------------

Open North is excited to continue its work with **Citizenship and
Immigration Canada** this quarter. We’re currently engaging with
newcomer settlement organizations across Canada to better understand
their digital capacity. This builds on our 2016 report on the data needs
of the sector. See the first report
[*here*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Cw2y4YGpCUz6Ui7PgmoYtrVs5bHSvydRrYuvHDZgu0s/edit?usp=sharing).
Stay tuned!

Understanding the universe of data users (e.g. academia, advocacy
groups, think tanks, media, private sector) is key for data publishers.
Working with the **National Energy Board**’s Integrated Information and
Analysis (IEIA), we are building a more complex understanding of data
producer-user relationship.

Stay tuned for more news in coming weeks and months about our work with
cities across Canada and globally with leading international
organizations. Visit our [*Open Cities
Strategies*](http://www.opennorth.ca/open-cities-strategies.html)’ page
to connect. We’ll also be following-up on the Government of Canada’s
Open Government Partnership national action plan commitments.

**Citizen Budget**
==================

2016 was another exciting year for Citizen Budget - now used
coast-to-coast by over 75 cities to significantly boost their budget
consultations and educate their residents on budget costs and
trade-offs. We're very pleased to announce that Citizen Budget is now
accessible to the vision-impaired, having attained AODA Level AA
interactivity.

We officially introduced our Participatory Budgeting - our 4th version
of Citizen Budget - following two successful experiences with a
municipality's remote online voting exercise. To read about the first
year's experience, please see [*our
blog*](http://www.opennorth.ca/2015/10/13/open-norths-citizen-budget-simulator-boosts-pioneering-citizen-engagement-project.html)
on the topic. We've had a great deal of interest in this module and look
forward to being a valued partner in the burgeoning participatory
budgeting field. For the second year running, the Participatory
Budgeting Project successfully used Citizen Budget for its own internal
budget consultations.

We're proud to announce our newest feature - a permanent "Tax Property
Calculator" to keep your budget page dynamic year-round, as per [***this
London, Ontario
example***](http://www.london.ca/city-hall/budget-business/budget/Pages/Property-Tax-Calculator.aspx)[*.*](http://www.london.ca/city-hall/budget-business/budget/Pages/Property-Tax-Calculator.aspx)
The Calculator allows your residents to enter their property value
assessments and instantaneously see how their tax dollars are allocated
for the coming budget cycle.

Watch Open North’s Executive Director present the benefits and impact of
our online Citizen Budget simulator for the [***Global Initiative for
Fiscal
Transparency***](http://www.fiscaltransparency.net/eng/webinar_open_public.php?IdToOpen=20170125106)[*.*](http://www.fiscaltransparency.net/eng/webinar_open_public.php?IdToOpen=20170125106)
