---
published: true
layout: post
title: Where you can find us in coming months
author: Open North
description: A roundup of where OpenNorth worked in 2017.
---
Open North is an active leader in helping the advancement of the open
data community across Canada. Here's where you can find us over the next
few months!

Subscribe to our mailing list to stay in touch, or follow us on Twitter
or Facebook to get the latest!

**March 2:
[OuiShareQC](https://www.facebook.com/events/782164488600861/),
Montreal, QC**

As part of a monthly discussion series organized by OuiShare, this
month’s discussion covered online democracy, participatory budgets and
civic tech at large. The event featured François Croteau, the mayor
[Arrondissement de Rosemont - La
Petite-Patrie](https://www.facebook.com/arrondissementRPP/), city
councillor [Guillaume
Lavoie](https://www.facebook.com/guillaumelavoie.intl), and Open North’s
Executive Director Jean-Noé Landry.

**March 9: [University of the
Streets](https://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/events/offices/vpaer/oce/2017/03/09/2017-03-09_representative-democracy.html),
Montreal, QC**

University of the Streets Café hosts public, bilingual conversations
with community professionals. This session leads with the question: “Do
citizens hold the necessary competencies, tools and knowledge to take
part in the democratic process and lead our communities?” The event has
invited our Executive Director Jean-Noé Landry, to discuss this question
alongside Frédéric Lapointe, the president of Ligue d’action civique.
The session will be moderated by Noémie Brière-Marquez, the coordinator
of the Forum jeunesse de l’île de Montréal.

**March 10-12: [HackQC](http://hackqc.ca/horaire/),
Sherbrooke, QC**

HackQC will be an exciting sprint of 48 hours of programming where teams
develop an application from open data that is useful for citizens. This
year’s theme is “alternative transport.” Open North will be in
attendance as a member of the jury.

**March 14: [Cities in
Tech](https://www.meetup.com/fr-FR/Cities-in-Tech/events/237762337/?eventId=237762337),
Montreal, QC**

Do you want to harness the power of technology to change the way cities
are used and developed and to make them more sustainable and
people-friendly? That’s the question for the inaugural event of this new
Cities in Tech meetup series. We’ll be sharing our experience alongside
Beatrice Couture from InnoCité MTL and Jack Sion, COO at Transit.

**March 21-23: [Transparency in the 21st
Century](http://www.oic-ci.gc.ca/transparencyconference/index.html),
Ottawa, ON**

This conference on transparency is organized by the Office of the
Information Commissioner of Canada with the Treasury Board Secretariat,
Department of Justice and Library and Archives Canada. Open North’s
Executive Director will be speaking on a panel entitled: *Transparency:
Open Government and the Next Generation,* alongside Canada2020’s Dan
Lenihan, Laura Tribe from Open Media and Mélanie Robert, Executive
Director of Information Management and Open Government at the Treasury
Board Secretariat.

**March 28-29: Policy Community Conference, Ottawa, ON**

We were pleased to accept Natural Resources Canada’s invitation to
participate in a workshop on open policy making, as part of the Policy
Community Conference. The workshop will focus on how to decide what
stage(s) of the policy development process should be open. It will also
identify principles for effective open policy making and ways to
evaluate the effectiveness, as well as best practices for leveraging
digital platforms for open policy making.

**March 27-29: [What Works Cities Summit
2017](https://whatworkscities.bloomberg.org/) (WCC), New York,
USA**

Rachel Bloom, Open North’s new Open Smart Cities in Canada project lead,
will be presenting on open data standards at this year’s Bloomberg
Philanthropies’ WWC Summit 2017. The WWC gathers nearly 300 dedicated
city practitioners, experts, and thought leaders from cities across the
USA to share experiences, engage in professional development, and
celebrate local achievements and the individuals driving change.

**March 30-31: [Schulich Executive Education Centre Executive Education Centre](http://seec.schulich.yorku.ca/), Toronto, ON**

Open North Expert Associates, Bianca Wylie and Jury Konga, will be teaching a two-course "Achieving Open Government Through Accountability, Transparency, and Open Data" at Schulich Executive Education Centre at York University.


**April 12: Armchair discussion on open government, Ottawa ON**

Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat (TBS) is organizing and delivering
this event in partnership with the Canada School of Public Service in an
effort to increase awareness of opportunities to mainstream open
government across Canada. The Armchair Discussion will be webcast
nationally in real time to internal Government of Canada participants
and the public at large. Stay tuned for details!

**May 3: Annual [URISA Ontario](http://www.urisaontario.ca/)
Be Spatial Conference, Markham Ontario**

The Be Spatial Conference is is an annual industry training, program and
expo showcase that attracts over 250 Geographic Information Systems
(GIS) and Information Technology (IT) managers, analysts, technicians,
professors and students from throughout Ontario. Jury Konga, Open Smart
Cities Associate will be presenting on Smart Cities and Digital
Government.

**May 5-6: Annual [Go-OpenData
Conference](http://go-opendata.ca/), London, ON**

GO Open Data is an annual community-driven conference, which brings
together civil society, IT professionals, bloggers, community and
economic developers, city planners, civil servants and more. Jury Konga,
Open North Associate, is the Senior Advisor to the conference and this
year’s program coordinator. The 5th annual Go Open Data conference
welcomes our Executive Director as the keynote speaker for this
important regional event!

**May 30-31: [Big Data and Analytics for the Public
Sector](http://www.infonex.ca/1250/index.shtml) Conference,
Toronto, ON**

This conference focuses on unlocking the value in your data and
enhancing data-driven decision making. Open North Associates, Jury Konga
and Bianca Wylie will be participating in the Future of Open Data and
Digital Government panel.

**June 12: [Data 4 Impact
Workshop](http://opendatasummit.ca/), Edmonton, AB**

This pre-event of the Canadian Open Data Summit, marks the second
edition of this workshop. Co-organized by OpenNorth, Powered by Data,
Data4Good, and Nick Scott from the Government of New Brunswick,
Data4Impact will focus on the non-profit’s relationship with data,
focusing on issues of capacity, mindset, infrastructure, and
collaboration.

**June 13: [Canadian Open Data Summit
(CODS17)](http://opendatasummit.ca/), Edmonton, AB.**

CODS is an annual event where the most pressing challenges facing the
open data and open government communities are addressed on a national
scale. Our Executive Director will be in attendance, presenting
*challenges and opportunities in expanding and deepening collaborative
partnerships with government across Canada.* The conference will be two
days full of workshops and seminars with industry leaders, making it an
event not to be missed!

**June 14-16: [GFOABC Annual
Conference](https://www.gfoabc.ca/events/annual-conference/2017-conference/),
Victoria, BC**

The GFOABC Annual Conference has been the premier training opportunity
for finance officers for over 20 years. 2017 will be no exception with a
great program that will fulfill your professional development needs and
provide valuable networking opportunities. Open North’s Business
Development Manager will be presenting our online CitizenBudget
simulator to this great audience of government finance officers.

**June 17-20: [Building Resilience 2017 Conference](http://www.cip-icu.ca/Resilience2017), Calgary, AB**

The 2017 Canadian Institute of Planners and the Alberta Professional Planners Institute’s Annual Conference aims to support those engaged with building resiliency through an engaging, collaborative, and thought provoking forum to explore this critical aspect of our shared futures. Keira Webster, Open North's City Resilience Research Intern, will be presenting our recently published discussion paper on city resilience and open data.
